we're here today to do a fun experiment
where we show how easy it is to spread
germs we're going to demonstrate this
using a powder that glows underneath the
blacklight as you can see the only item
in our experiment that has been
contaminated with powder is the water
bottle in this experiment the powder
represents our bacteria our germs and
viruses so we can demonstrate how easy
it is to spread this even if we're
running into the grocery store with
proper PPE and protective equipment and
grabbing one item okay I have placed my
protective equipment on correctly and
now I'm gonna run in and buy some water
at the grocery store so here's my water
they want to take my pin and pay for it
I got my receipt sign for that thank you
open this up get a drink I've been
shopping
okay spread this up okay so now I've
gone out to my car and I am ready to
take off my mask and gloves and I want
to show you how important it is that we
do this in the right order in the right
way so let's see how I did I'm gonna
turn on my black light here oh my
goodness so starting off we knew it was
on the one surface look at my gloves my
masks right here on the outside of my
gloves the receipt oh my goodness look
at this pin the poor person who uses
this pin after me oh and look at my
hands oh my goodness the worst part
about this is when I remove my mask I
did not use the proper procedure which
means that that must be on my face to
Cova 19 spreads through getting in your
nose and in your mouth and now this is
really close to my nose but it doesn't
have to be that way I've been a nurse
for 14 years and I'd like to give you
some tips and tricks for how to put on
your personal protective equipment and
take it off safely so that you don't
have to be afraid to go to the grocery
store so let's talk about the cloth
masks it all starts with our hand
hygiene it's always all about hand
hygiene either our alcohol foam hand
sanitizer or good old soap and water
so you want to clean our hands before we
put the mask on hand hygiene is the
number one way to prevent the spread of
any infection and that's true with kovat
as well so you want to let your hands
dry if you've used hand sanitizer and
then you're gonna start with your mask
by holding it on the ear loops and
you're gonna loop one ear first and then
wrap around to the other ear and you
want to make sure that the mask actually
covers your nose and your chin and your
mouth if you have a metal piece in your
nose you want to make sure that it seals
over the bridge
your nose those of you who wear a
glasses this will also help prevent your
glasses from getting foggy you want to
make sure that there's as good of a seal
as possible around the edges of your
face and underneath your chin so that
nothing is getting up underneath there
now let's talk about gloves since I
haven't touched any other surfaces
besides my mask I don't need to wash my
hands but had I needed to touch
something in between putting on my mask
in my gloves I would want to hand
sanitize again now we can go about our
business all right we are done with our
shopping and now we're getting ready to
take off our personal protective
equipment safely so the very first thing
you want to do is take off your gloves
these are dirty so anything on my glove
is dirty so I want to keep glove to
glove when I take off the first glove
I'm pinching it here and I'm gonna pull
this off inside out and drop it into the
trash my hand is clean because I cleaned
my hands and did proper hand hygiene
before putting my gloves on so I'm gonna
skin-to-skin put my fingers inside the
glove on my skin pulling these inside
out as I go through and then just
dropping the rest of the glove inside
the trash next guess what hand hygiene
I'm gonna use some alcohol to clean my
hands before I touch my face so I've
been out in public and this has all been
exposed to the public so I want to start
with one ear loop with my clean hands
and remove one ear loop and the other
ear loop with my other hand and I'm
going to drop this in the trash or in a
safe place if you have a cloth mask and
gloves you can throw these immediately
into the washer on the highest heat
setting when you get home these can also
be dried in the dryer on the highest
setting just keep in mind that the
elastic might wear out over time or you
can air dry them you just want to make
sure that they are completely dry before
you use them
again after removing your gloves either
into the trash or into the washer next
guess what we have hand hygiene I'm
using some alcohol foam here but if
you're at home soap and water lathering
up for 20 seconds is best now you know
all our tips and tricks your safety is
in your hands thank you for doing your
part